[mkdocs] Fully document channels.messaging.knative.dev (#3650)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/channels/channel-types-defaults.md

# Channel types and defaults
Knative uses two types of channels:

> * The generic Channel object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A generic Channel object.
```

* Channel implementations that each have their own custom resource definitions (CRDs), such as

> `InMemoryChannel` and `KafkaChannel`.

Reviewer: If we're not doing `backticks` for Channel I'd leave them off for all other resources too and let's just consistently not use them for these, e.g. Service, Broker, KafkaChannel, PingSource, etc etc

Reviewer: I think this was actually updated in the word list recently

Reviewer 2: Okay, will do.

> The custom Channel implementations each have their own event delivery mechanisms, such as in-memory
> or broker-based. Example brokers include Kafka and GCP Pub/Sub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Channel implementations each have their own event delivery mechanisms, such as in-memory
or broker-based. Examples of Brokers include KafkaBroker and the GCP Pub/Sub Broker.
```

> Knative provides the `InMemoryChannel` channel implementation by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative provides the InMemoryChannel Channel implementation by default.
```
...and so on

This default implementation is useful for developers who do not want to configure a specific
implementation type, such as Apache Kafka or NATSS channels.

> Through the generic Channel object you can create a channel without specifying which channel
> implementation CRD is used.
> This is useful if you do not care about the properties a particular channel provides, such as
> ordering and persistence, and you want to use the implementation selected by the cluster administrator.
> The cluster administrator controls the default settings through the `default-ch-webhook` ConfigMap in the
> `knative-eventing` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the generic Channel object if you want to create a channel without specifying which channel
implementation CRD is used. This is useful if you do not care about the properties a particular Channel implementation provides, such as ordering and persistence, and you want to use the implementation selected by the cluster administrator.

Cluster administrators can modify the default Channel implementation settings by editing the `default-ch-webhook` ConfigMap in the `knative-eventing` namespace.
```

For more information about modifying ConfigMaps, see

> [Configuring the Eventing Operator custom resource](./docs/install/configuring-eventing-cr/).

Reviewer: link appears to be broken in the preview?

Reviewer 2: Thanks, will fix.

> [Configuring the Eventing Operator custom resource](/admin/install/operator/configuring-eventing-cr).

Reviewer: I'd link to the specific section: /admin/install/operator/configuring-eventing-cr/#setting-a-default-channel

Reviewer 2: Sure, will do

Default channels can be configured for the cluster, a namespace on the cluster, or both.

!!! note

>     If a default channel implementation is configured for a namespace, this will overwrite the  configuration for the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If a default channel implementation is configured for a namespace, this will overwrite the configuration for the cluster.
```
extra space

> In the following example, the cluster default channel implementation is `InMemoryChannel`, while the

Reviewer: Channel throughout?

---

# Channel types and defaults
Knative uses two types of channels:

* The generic Channel object
* Channel implementations that each have their own custom resource definitions (CRDs), such as
`InMemoryChannel` and `KafkaChannel`.

The custom Channel implementations each have their own event delivery mechanisms, such as in-memory
or broker-based. Example brokers include Kafka and GCP Pub/Sub.

Knative provides the `InMemoryChannel` channel implementation by default.
This default implementation is useful for developers who do not want to configure a specific
implementation type, such as Apache Kafka or NATSS channels.

Through the generic Channel object you can create a channel without specifying which channel
implementation CRD is used.
This is useful if you do not care about the properties a particular channel provides, such as
ordering and persistence, and you want to use the implementation selected by the operator.
The operator controls the default settings through the `default-ch-webhook` ConfigMap in the

> `knative-eventing` namespace.

Reviewer: Use "cluster administrator" consistently instead of "operator"? (assuming that's what's meant here)
I think it's confusing for us to use operator since it's an overloaded term with the [Knative Operator](https://github.com/knative/operator)

Reviewer 2: Good idea, I'll do so.

          replicationFactor: 1
```

!!! note

>     `InMemoryChannel` channels are not suited for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    InMemoryChannel Channels must not be used in production environments.
```
suggestion

## Next steps

> - [Creating a channel using cluster or namespace defaults](./create-default-channel)

Reviewer: link appears broken in preview

Reviewer 2: Thanks, will fix.

> - [Creating a channel using cluster or namespace defaults](/eventing/channels/create-default-channel)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Creating a Channel using cluster or namespace defaults](/eventing/channels/create-default-channel)
```

          replicationFactor: 1
```

> **NOTE:** `InMemoryChannel` channels should not be used in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** `InMemoryChannel` channels must not be used in production environments.
```

Reviewer 2: I'll clarify with "`InMemoryChannel` channels are not suited for production environments."

Reviewer: I'd keep it more prescriptive by using something definite like "must not" tbh

Reviewer: It might help to explain why not here, e.g. no delivery reattempts, that kinda thing
